# MSCS_634_ProjectDeliverable_1
The dataset chosen for the project is Stroke Prediction Dataset. Human health is an important factor in everyday life. According to World Health Organization (WHO) stroke is the 2nd leading cause of death globally, responsible for approximately 11% of total deaths. With the help of this dataset we can predict if a patient is likely to get stroke based on the input provided by the patients. The dataset chosen has 12 attributes and more than 5000 records which is helpful in data analysis and get a more accurate prediction.

Various Data Cleaning Steps were performed. In order to handle the missing values present in the data, data removal was performed since the amount of missing data compared to data size was small. A quick check and removal of duplicates or inconsistent data was also done using the code. As for the noisy data, during the analysis severial were found which was identified and addressed using outliers and fixing the missing values.

From the EDA process, various pattern and insights were gained such as most of the patients in the dataset falls under 40 to 60 age groups provide the information that most common age group to collect addition data or to be studied falls under that age group. Also, the dataset only provided with small number of people to experience stroke which can be improved by collecting data points with more number of people who have experienced stroke for future modeling steps for a accurate and better resutls. The pattern from the data points suggested that the people with hypertension and bmi had higher stroke rate. 

One of the steps taken in data cleaning was first determining the missing values but one of the challenges faced during the data cleaning process was that some of the category present was confusing for example under the smoking status column unknown was present which is null value but for the system it is not regonize as null until you point it out. Also, the yes and no criteria was defined as 1 and 0 which cause the system to pick 0 as null when trying to cleaning the data. With the challenges faced and learned, each category was properly defined as well as 0 and 1 was corrected to No and Yes for easier and accurate analysis.
